1. You recently took over a project in the middle of executing
from another project manager who left the organization. You
became extremely worried to find out that a substantial amount of
new change requests are coming from your key stakeholders,
customers, and even from your manager. You are anxious that the
changes will drastically increase the cost and time of the project,
and you are not sure about how to process these incoming change
requests. What should you refer to for any kind of help in this
situation? 
(A) The previous project manager who can provide guidance and relevant information
(B) The project charter to find out the key success criteria from the stakeholders
(C) The project requirements document to know more about the project requirements
(D) The Project Management Plan
2. John, the project manager, is in the process of Develop Project
Charter to develop a document to formally authorize a project or a
phase and identify the business objectives and needs, current
understanding of the stakeholders’ expectations, and the new
product, service, or result that it is intended to satisfy. Which one
of the following is NOT an input to this Develop Project Charter
process?
(A) Enterprise Environmental Factors
(B) Business Documents – Business Case and Benefits Management Plan
(C) Agreements
(D) Project Management Plan
3. Which one of the following is FALSE about change management in
a project?
(A) “Influencing the factors that affect change” means determining the source of changes and fixing the root causes.
(B) Whenever there is a change request, the project manager should evaluate the impact on project objectives such as scope, time, cost, quality, risk, resources, and other factors.
(C) The project manager should make all the effort to prevent unnecessary changes in the project.
(D) The project manager should make the change happen as soon as possible to meet and exceed customer expectations.
4. Your manager mentioned to you that the present value of a
project is $350,000 and asked you to find out the future value that
the project will have four years from now if the expected interest
rate is 8 percent. What is the future value in this case?
(A) $350,000
(B) $400,000
(C) $476,000
(D) $257,352
5. Which one of the following statements is NOT true about the
Project Management Plan?
(A) It is a single-approved document that defines how the project is executed, monitored and controlled, and closed.
(B) It is developed through a series of integrated processes.
(C) It is progressively elaborated by updates and controlled and approved through the Perform Integrated Change Control process.
(D) It provides project inputs, tools & techniques, and outputs to be used on the project for the purpose of managing the product of the project.
6. You are a technical specialist and domain expert working on an
IT project to implement a new console video game. There is a
change control process in place, and the project scope is already
signed off by the sponsor and key stakeholders. While having a
casual conversation with one of the stakeholders, you realize that
a simple change in the design will add a great feature to the
project. Since there is no visible impact, you made the change to
the project without informing the project manager. What kind of
reaction should you expect from the project manager?
(A) The project manager should simply ignore the change since it had no visible impact.
(B) You should be informed that your action was inconsistent with the change management plan, and this kind of unauthorized action should not be repeated again.
(C) The project manager should get the customer sign-off on the implemented change.
(D) You should be recognized for exceeding customer expectations without affecting the project cost or schedule.
7. You are approaching the end of your project and have been
asked to release the resources so that they can be assigned to other
projects. Before releasing the resources, you want to make sure
that you have completed the necessary actions. Which of the
following is the correct order of actions that you take during the
closing process?
(A) Get formal acceptance, write lessons learned, release the team, and close the contract.
(B) Get formal acceptance, release the team, write lessons learned, and close the contract.
(C) Write lessons learned, release the team, get formal acceptance, and close the contract.
(D) Release the team, get formal acceptance, close the contract, and write lessons learned.
8. While overseeing the implementation of a new computer
infrastructure at the local hospital, you notice that a substantial
amount of change requests have originated from one single key
stakeholder. The stakeholder is also insisting that all of his
requests should be implemented as soon as possible. What will be
your BEST course of action?
(A) Ask the sponsor to have a discussion with the key stakeholder and ask him not to request so many changes to the project.
(B) Call the stakeholder and request him not to send any more change requests.
(C) Have a meeting with the stakeholder to review the change process in the project and determine the causes of his changes.
(D) Assign a team member to work solely with the stakeholder to understand his needsand expectations.
9. Which one of the following statements is FALSE about theProject
Management Information System (PMIS)?
(A) It is incorporated as part of the Enterprise Environmental Factors (EEFs) to several processes since it is part of the environment in which the project is performed.
(B) It is an automated system that can serve as a repository for information and a tool to assist with communication and with tracking documents and deliverables.
(C) It consists of the data sources and the tools & techniques used to gather, integrate, analyze, and disseminate the results of the combined outputs of the project management processes.
(D) It defines how the project is executed, monitored and controlled, and closed.
10. Ashley is overseeing an IT project to implement a payroll
system for a local doctor’s office. The project has twelve team
members and nine stakeholders, and it is supposed to be
completed in six months. Ashley was unaware that a modification
request to the product specifications by one of the stakeholders
was immediately implemented by the project team. During the
final testing, Ashley was surprised to find out that there was a
major variance between the actual test results and the planned
results. Which one of the following is a contribution to this kind
of adverse consequence?
(A) Poor Quality Management Plan
(B) Lack of commitment to the change control process
(C) Poor definition of the test plan
(D) Lack of adherence to the communication plan
11. You have just been assigned as a project manager to
implement a web-based accounting software for one of your
clients. You have chosen a specific change-driven product
development life cycle for the implementation of your project. As
you are expecting many changes during the course of the project,
you want to establish a robust configuration management system
to describe the different versions and characteristics of the
product, service, or result of the project and to ensure the
accuracy and completeness of the description. Which of the
following statements is FALSE about configuration management?
(A) It includes configuration identification, configuration status accounting, and configuration verification and audit.
(B) It focuses on establishing and maintaining consistency of a product’s requirements.
(C) It compares the actual project performance against the project management plan and determines whether any corrective or preventive actions are required.
(D) Its purpose is to maintain integrity of the work product.
12. You just received a change request from the customer, which
will require an additional $2,000 and will also delay the project by
two weeks. The customer mentioned that they were OK with the
delay and were willing to pay for the extra amount as the new
change will drastically improve their business automation. As per
your organizational policy, you are supposed to get the project
office’s approval for any change that will extend the project
duration by more than a week. What should you do in this
situation? 
(A) Discuss the change with the project office.
(B) Do not allow the change since it would extend the project duration by more than one week.
(C) Allow the change and ask the team member to implement it since it will drastically help the customer and the customer is paying for the change anyway.
(D) Advise the customer to take the change request to the project office and explain to them the importance of the change and his/her willingness to pay for it.
13. The Project Management Information System (PMIS), such as
any automated system that can be utilized during the Direct and
Manage Project Work process, will include all of the following
EXCEPT: 
(A) A tool & technique to identify the internal and external stakeholders.
(B) An information collection and distribution system.
(C) A configuration management system.
(D) A scheduling software tool.
14. One of your colleagues recently took over a project and
expressed her concern to you about the new changes that may be
streaming in from various sources. What is the best piece of
advice you can offer her regarding changes and where she should
devote most of her attention?
(A) Implementing changes as accurately as possible
(B) Tracking and recording all changes as accurately as possible
(C) Preventing unnecessary changes in the project as much as possible
(D) Informing the sponsor about all changes
15. Which one of the following is a subset of the Project
Management Information System (PMIS) that describes the
different versions and characteristics of the product, service, or
result of the project and ensures accuracy and completeness of the
description?
(A) Quality Control
(B) Configuration Management
(C) Scope Change Control
(D) Product Change Control
16. A project is just initiated under a contract in your organization,
and you were assigned as the project manager. You were
expecting a Statement of Work (SOW), which will describe the
business need, product scope, and other elements. In this case,
from whom should you expect the SOW?
(A) The project sponsor
(B) The buyer
(C) The contractor
(D) The Project Management Office (PMO)
17. While managing a data center project, you used a
Configuration Management System to describe the different
versions and characteristics of the product, service, or result of the
project and to ensure the accuracy and completeness of the
description. All of the following are configuration management
activities in the Integrated Change Control process EXCEPT:
(A) Configuration verification and audit
(B) Configuration identification
(C) Forecasting and variance analysis
(D) Configuration status accounting
18. You are a project manager at a dairy farm that offers several
dairy products to its clients in different states, especially on the
West Coast. You have sent a few of your team members to China
to get specialized training on a spectacular dairy food processing
equipment recently introduced in the market. The team members
just completed the training, and this is one of the work results you
have collected and recorde(D) This output describes which of the
following in the Direct and Manage Project Work process?
(A) Deliverables
(B) Work Performance Data
(C) Change requests
(D) Project Management Plan update
19. All of the following statements are true regarding assumptions
EXCEPT:
(A) Assumptions are factors used for planning purposes and may be communicated to a project team by several different stakeholders.
(B) Assumptions are generally considered to be true, real or certain, and nonfactual.
(C) Assumptions are absolute and nonnegotiable.
(D) Failure to validate assumptions may result in significant riskevents.
20. You are one of the members of the project prioritization and
selection committee in your organization. The selection team is
debating between two projects, which are both considered to be
very important. The organization has to make an initial
investment of $250,000 with expected cash inflows of $75,000 in
the first year and $25,000 per quarter thereafter for the first
project. The second project has a payback period of thirty-five
months. Based solely on this information, which project should
the selection committee recommend?
(A) First project as it has a smaller payback period
(B) Second project as it has a smaller payback period
(C) None of them since both of them have the same payback period
(D) Either of the two projects since payback period is not important
21. You are the project manager for a cable service provider that
is providing Internet, TV, and phone service throughout the
United States. Your company recently introduced its service in
Canada and made you the project manager for a critical project,
which is two months in execution at this time. You are reporting
on project elements such as deliverable status, schedule progress,
resource utilization, costs incurred, and others. Which of the
following outputs of the Direct and Manage Project Work does
this describe?
(A) Deliverables
(B) Work Performance Data
(C) Change requests
(D) Project Management Plan update
22. While managing a large construction project, you are ready to
assign resources to the project using a work authorization system.
All of the following statements are true about a work
authorization system EXCEPT:
(A) It is a formal, documented procedure to describe how to authorize and initiate work in the correct sequence at the appropriate time.
(B) It is a tool & technique of the Monitor and Control Project Work process.
(C) It is a component of the enterprise environmental factors, which are inputs in the Monitor and Control Project Work process.
(D) It is used throughout the project executing process.
23. You are working as a project manager at a consulting firm and
recently received a Statement of Work (SOW) from the client. As
per your expectation, the SOW should contain or reference which
of the following elements?
(A) Business need, product scope description or what is to be done, and how the project supports the strategic plan
(B) Measurable project objectives, business need, product scope description or what is to be done, and how the project supports the strategic plan
(C) Project purpose, business need, product scope description or what is to be done, and how the project supports the strategic plan
(D) Business need, product scope description or what is to be done, and project purpose
24. You are the project manager for IT Pro Consultancy. You have
a project in mind that will be able to meet the strategic objective
of your organization. While evaluating the project, your team
found out that the project would cost $600,000. Since you are
introducing a new potential product in the market, you are very
hopeful that your expected inflows will be $30,000 per quarter for
the first two years and then $90,000 per quarter thereafter. What is
the payback period of this project?
(A) Thirty-six months
(B) Thirty-eight months
(C) Forty-eight months
(D) Fifty-two months
25. While managing a data recovery project, you are performing
the following activities: comparing actual project performance
against the project management plan, analyzing, tracking,
monitoring project risks, assessing performance to determine
whether any corrective or preventive actions are required,
providing information to support status reporting, monitoring
implementation of approved changes, providing forecasts to
update current costs and schedule information, and other things.
Which process are you in at this time?
(A) Manage Stakeholder Expectations
(B) Monitor and Control Risks
(C) Direct and Manage Project Work
(D) Monitor and Control Project Work
26. Your company can accept one of three possible projects.
Project A has a Net Present Value (NPV) of $30,000, it will take
five years to complete, and the associated cost will be $10,000.
Project B has a NPV of $60,000, it will take three years to
complete, and the cost will be $15,000. Project C has a NPV of
$80,000, it will take four years to complete, and it will cost
$40,000. Based on the information, which project would you
pick?
(A) They all have the same value
(B) Project A
(C) Project B
(D) Project C
27. A project manager for a pharmaceutical project is reviewing
the project contract and going through the narrative description of
products and services to be supplied under the contract. He is
meeting with subject matter experts, key stakeholders, and
business analysts to evaluate whether or not the project is worth
the required investment of $1 million. He also asked the team
members to carry out a feasibility study on the project and report
to him the findings as soon as possible. Which of the following
documents would be created as an output in the process?
(A) Project Management Plan
(B) Project Statement of Work
(C) Project Charter
(D) Requirements Documentation
28. All of the following statements regarding Integration Management
are true EXCEPT:
(A) The need for Integration Management is one of the major driving forces for communication in a project.
(B) Project integration is a key responsibility of the project team.
(C) The project manager’s role as an integrator is to put all the pieces of a project into a cohesive whole.
(D) Project Integration Management is the set of combined processes implemented by the project manager to ensure all the elements of the project are effectively coordinated.
29. The Scope Management Plan, Schedule Management Plan,
Schedule Baseline, Process Improvement Plan, Change
Management Plan, and others are which one of the following to
the project plan?
(A) Subsidiaries
(B) Appendixes
(C) Constraints
(D) Glossary
30. There are several potential projects in your organization.
Unfortunately, the organization doesn’t have the time, resources,
or cash to work on all those projects. The senior management is
particularly interested in two projects and ask you to identify the
best one to work on based on the Net Present Value (NPV). While
exploring those two projects, you discovered the following:
Project Alpha:
Investment needed: $ 135,000
Benefit: End of 1st year: $0, End of 2nd year: $75,000, End of 3rd year:
89,000
Project Beta:
Investment needed: $ 120,000
Benefit: End of 1st year: $55,000, End of 2nd year: 79,000
Assume an interest rate of 6%, which project should you recommend?
(A) Project Alpha
(B) Project Beta
(C) Neither of the projects should be recommended
(D) Both projects should be recommended
31. You are working on a construction project and successfully
completed all the work. Your stakeholders were very pleased and
recently communicated their final acceptance of the project. You
are now meeting with your team to update the organizational
process assets with a record of knowledge gained about the
project to help future project managers with their projects. Once
the lessons learned is completed, what should you do next?
(A) Release the team.
(B) Close the contract.
(C) Get formal acceptance.
(D) Write lessons learned.
32. Your cyber security implementation project has a Schedule
Performance Index (SPI) of 1.2 and Cost Performance Index
(CPI) of 1.3. Now that you are ahead of schedule and under
budget, you can add work without delaying your project or
exceeding the budget. You realized that throughout the project,
your team made several mistakes and ignored few best methods
for securing the network and preventing various types of attack.
Your sponsor was very disappointed that a Denial of Service
(DOS) attack was carried out against your organization recently.
You tried to identify information on similar mistakes from
previous projects but failed to identify any relevant Lessons
Learned Register. You decided to develop a Lesson Learned
Register that you need to update:
(A) At the completion of the entire project
(B) At the completion of each phase
(C) Bi weekly
(D) Throughout the project
33. You are in the Close Project or Phase process of your
construction project. All of the following occur during this
process EXCEPT:
(A) Confirm work completion to requirements
(B) Determine the Net Present Value of the project
(C) Gain formal acceptance of the product
(D) Hand off completed product